# Meeting 17th April 2025


Meeting 17thApril 2025


### Present: 
AlbaC-B, Hannah G, James L, Lewis, Jim S., Richard P., Simon R 

### Apologies
None

## Agenda:
### Discussion items
Proposals from Jim:
- [ ] Use sdc-reboot repo for process docs 
     discuss in the next session
- [X] Uename worst case scenario
- [ ] Imperial paper
- [X] Add p(tpr given fpr) to metrics
- [X] Separate record attack val from metric calculation so we store matrix of record (row) vs attack risk (col)
  
## Notes
- Introductions to Lewis. He works on synthetic data.
- @Lewis mention that there's a workshop on determining if synthetic data is anonymous.
- User stories need update and re-organise to integrate new functionality and resolve issues (i.e. with SafeModels/Tensorflow, loading data).
- Discussion about the document ["That's what we need - HIC"](https://github.com/orgs/AI-SDC/projects/15/views/2?pane=issue&itemId=98897090&issue=AI-SDC%7CTREvolution_disclosure_control_work%7C8)
   - Help into identifying models with embeded data
   - More documentation/training
   - Workflow
- [TAIBOM trusted ai bill of materials](https://taibom.org) useful for meta data standards
- Dedicate a session to how to create AI models with synthetic data that generalise well. Use summary statistics, etc.
- @Simon Meeting with eDRIS on foundational model -- not possible yet. Follow up
- Need to organise a session on foundational models in general.
- Decide which datasets for synthetic dta would make sense to have. @Jim proposed tabular data with a lot of columns, and some image data.
- Look at this [tool](https://appfl.ai/en/latest/index.html), they’re doing something similar as sacroml
- Have a look and comment on the document [ML risk assessment agreement] (https://uweacuk-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/g/personal/james_smith_uwe_ac_uk/EQk5E0bot5JClMWmiqWbPU4BfmJXl_Bg0W5nMcWG6t4wDA?rtime=LTA7Z5x93Ug)
- The tool [LeakPro](https://github.com/aidotse/LeakPro/tree/main) integrates different risks scenarios in one report. The scope is a bit different from SACRO-ML, some overlapping. Structural attacks is unique to SACRO-ML.
- Drop / suspend safekeras class. Relies on versions out of date packages. Issues with TensorFlow. So focus on pyTorch.
- Keras is still in use at least for teaching, not clear the outside world usage. It changes very rapidly.
- @Jim is proposing to rename the attack scenarios to be less confusing with literature. Specially the WorstCase attack, where it seems to mean quite different things depending on authors.
- Paper in the Zotero sacroml folder ["lost in the averages" by guepin et all](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2405.15423)


## Actions
- [ ] @Jim to set up teams without lobby
- [ ] @Lewis Set up a session about synthetid data/DP/summary statistics methods.
- [ ] @Jim @Simon @James organise a session on foundational models
- [ ] @Simon @Jim Organise a session on models that contain embeded data - how to deal with them, how to present it to an output checker?
- [ ] @Jim @Alba Define what a "Target" models looks like
- [ ] @Hannah speak with @Richard for getting SACRO-ML installed
- [ ] @all comment on the document [ML risk assessment agreement] (https://uweacuk-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/g/personal/james_smith_uwe_ac_uk/EQk5E0bot5JClMWmiqWbPU4BfmJXl_Bg0W5nMcWG6t4wDA?rtime=LTA7Z5x93Ug)
- [ ] @Richard to work on how to best deal with: "Separate record attack val from metric calculation so we store matrix of record (row) vs attack risk (col)"

### outstanding actions
- [x] @albacrespi to raise issue looking at the user stories to see if they are still relevant
- [ ] add any issues to project so they can be planned
- [ ] @simonrnss to create list of TREs/projects we are currently working with:
- [ ] @albacrespi to add issues corresponding to recommendations from GRAIMatter that we have not covered previously 
- [ ] @simonrnss: to organise a meeting on eDRIS foundational model
- [ ] @jim-smith find way for us/ comunity prioritisation

### Round-the table updates
- @Lewis expalined about his work on synthetic data, and workshops coming up.
- @Alba looked at user stories and refactoring. 
- @Hannah issues installing sacroml due to incompatible versions of TensorFlow requirements.
- @James read papers on previous work
- @Richard work on how to extend SACRO-ML with pytorch (tool agnostic). Dealing with parsing data, moving to data loaders.
- @Jim work on [documentation](https://github.com/AI-SDC/SDC-Reboot/blob/12-documentation-table-of-risks-vs-types-of-models/categorisation_of_models_and_risks.md) based on experience working on TRE, what matters most.


### Next chair
Randomly decided: @Richard
