# Meeting 17th April 2025


Meeting 1st May 2025


### Present: 
Alba, Hannah, Richard, Simon, Anwar Gaungoo

### Apologies
Jim S., James L

## Agenda:
### Discussion items

- [x] Update + Previous actions
- [x] Documentation on [types of risk](https://github.com/AI-SDC/SDC-Reboot/blob/12-documentation-table-of-risks-vs-types-of-models/categorisation_of_models_and_risks.md)
- [x] Thoughts on the document [ML risk assessment agreement](https://uweacuk-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/g/personal/james_smith_uwe_ac_uk/EQk5E0bot5JClMWmiqWbPU4BfmJXl_Bg0W5nMcWG6t4wDA?rtime=LTA7Z5x93Ug)
- [X] Use sdc-reboot repo for process docs 
- [x] Dedicate a session to how to create AI models with synthetic data that generalise well.
- [x] @Simon Meeting with eDRIS on foundational model
- [ ] Session on foundation models
- [ ] Thoughts about this [tool APPFL](https://appfl.ai/en/latest/index.html), they’re doing something similar as sacroml


### Round-the table updates
- Richard paper accepted on SACRO
- New person started
- Release new version of SACRO-ML, removed dependencies
- Hannah has now managed to install sacro-ml
- Chat with eDRIS about embeded data
- Richard work on integration on pytorch
- Hannah user story 4, doesn't work as starting point not obvious which readme you need to look at. Discuss config file. Explain better how to install and run examples.
- Document on  risks on github.
    - Define target audience - There are a lot of different levels of "technical" people, and it's hard to find a clear line on how best suit everyone.
    - Perhaps there should be for each model a general introduction, then go into more technical details, so reader can decide how deep to read.
    - Format, markdown for now. Speak to Jim whether he preferences Doc or other format for comments.
    - Put information, e.g. say you can only use e.g. SVMs/KNN if you really need to as it will cause issues at egress.- so this is a data egress problem, not a model egress. 
- some kernels store SVMs, so maybe it would be good to document those cases. Hannah is taking a lead.
- LeakPro overlaps a lot, need to talk to them.
- SACRO-ML at the moment is only doing classification. We need to think on how to expand. E.g. regression, embedding models etc
- Carlini implementation of LIRA, why using logpdf, there is an open issue.
- Look at new attack https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03262

## Previous Actions
- [X] @Jim to set up teams without lobby
- [ ] @Lewis Set up a session about synthetid data/DP/summary statistics methods.
- [ ] @Jim @Simon @James organise a session on foundational models
- [X] @Simon @Jim Organise a session on models that contain embeded data - how to deal with them, how to present it to an output checker?
- [ ] @Jim @Alba Define what a "Target" models looks like
- [X] @Hannah speak with @Richard for getting SACRO-ML installed
- [ ] @all comment on the document [ML risk assessment agreement] (https://uweacuk-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/g/personal/james_smith_uwe_ac_uk/EQk5E0bot5JClMWmiqWbPU4BfmJXl_Bg0W5nMcWG6t4wDA?rtime=LTA7Z5x93Ug)
- [ ] @Richard to work on how to best deal with: "Separate record attack val from metric calculation so we store matrix of record (row) vs attack risk (col)"

### outstanding actions
- [ ] add any issues to project so they can be planned
- [ ] @simonrnss to create list of TREs/projects we are currently working with:
- [ ] @simonrnss: to organise a meeting on eDRIS foundational model
- [ ] @jim-smith find way for us/ comunity prioritisation

 
## Actions
- [ ] Hannah to start a list issues to consider for different ML methods to consider. Start github issue as well. High level, then add more details. Start with SVM example.
- [] @Jim speak to LeakPro people.
- [] look on how to expand functionality into images
- [] Read paper on new [RMIA attack](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03262), to see if it's worth implementing it (by Shokri team)
- [] Hannah to read LIRA attack paper https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/iel7/9833550/9833558/09833649.pdf?casa_token=cTvLMbssO64AAAAA:TawVTVsVSzOgxMuvo7YIMEpqs5Nbrf7t3N0nmClZ6H_dZ938kYUrpUrxr27b8CUltB5OZfHFM7PKd0A

### Next chair
Next chair: 
