# Meeting 26th June 2025


### Present: 
Alba C-B, Hannah G., Kay A., Richard P., Anwar, Warren

### Apologies
James L, Jim S, Simon R 

## Agenda:

### Round-the table updates
- Hannah: Still working on updating the SVM doc and getting access to EDRISS. Went through current state of doc and sense-checked the starting example (deemed fine by the group).
  Discussed getting the two final examples of RBF SVM with complete dataset vs only support vectors shown on same line.
  Richard suggested using <https://github.com/AI-SDC/SACRO-ML/tree/main/docs/source> as an example for the RST formatting.
- Kay: Has been focussed on reading relevant papers for the project and continuing tech setup
- Alba: Requested again feedback on the [disclosure control document](https://github.com/AI-SDC/SDC-Reboot/blob/12-documentation-table-of-risks-vs-types-of-models/categorisation_of_models_and_risks.md)
- Richard: has been working on the code restructure:
  - Simplifying the structure
  - Reducing bloat
  - Use of a dataset class by researchers instead of numpy, convert to numpy in the background. Alba raised concern that there could be an issue if the code only works when the data is held completely in RAM. Richard pointed out that the attacks would not be feasible anyway if the data cannot be stored in RAM.
  - Lastest version has been released (not including changes discussed above)

### Discussion items
Risk agreement: The [risk agreement](https://github.com/AI-SDC/SDC-Reboot/blob/72-presentation-an-document-about-why-we-need-various-bits-of-information-to-assess-ml-documents/ml-risk-agreement.rst) is an agreement between TREs and the project team, explaining what information is needed to be provided by the project team to the TRE and why.
Feedback on doc discussed, Alba to add a comment on needed clarifications around data leakage.

### Actions
- [ ] Alba to add a comment on risk agreement on clarification of data leakage meaning
- [ ] Hannah to put the SVM doc into rst format
- [ ] All to provide feedback on the [disclosure control document](https://github.com/AI-SDC/SDC-Reboot/blob/12-documentation-table-of-risks-vs-types-of-models/categorisation_of_models_and_risks.md)
  
### Next chair
James L (decided last meeting)
