# Meeting 4th Sept 2025


### Present: 
AlbaC-B, Anwar,  Kay A., Jessica

### Apologies
Jim S.

### Round-the table updates
Alba: The document on the process for AI disclosure control (RELEASE-AI) is taking shape.

Anwar: 
 - Update documentation on how to set up TR-FIX now called Five Safe Tes
 - Milestones for TREVOLUTION from infrascturture for federated analytics

Kay:
 - store record level outocme for Structural attack
 - support PyTorch model
 - working on paper risk assessment for ML classsifiers

Jessica: 
 - README files, think of user experience, think how to make it clearer, identify links, better understand how to use
 - better structure for JSON file, perhaps optimisation as well
 - thinking of improvements for ACRO viewer

## Agenda:
1. Agree on what subsets of models and data sets to start running to create a database of trained targets we can attack.

   - It might be helpful to agree a few from the list Richard compiled because Jim have asked Kay to start work creating scripts to rub batches of model-hyperparameter- dataset combinations 
   - (Assuming we will generate those firs then attack them later)

   - It also might be useful to decide what else we would want to measure
   - For example, training time might tell us what is not feasible to run lira on
 
2. Are there new attacks (quantile regression etc) anyone wants to volunteer to implement?

3. (if there's time) we could discuss how we want to refactor/restructure the repo’s
   - what model should we follow? Skleaarn?
   - maybe that needs a separate side meeting setting up.


### outstanding actions/ issues arising from updates

- [ ] @all: let Jim know if you want accounts on the server we bought, and what tools you want on there beyond ssh.
- [X] @Alba produce shorter version of process docs


### Substantive Discussion Item:

- Need to decide how to deal with federated analytics. In terms of infraestructre, determine what is needed or at least which options could be beneficial for TREs to have. Need to have a meeting with Anwar at some point to see how to plan for this.
- Documentation needs to be more user friendly.
- Improve viewers.
- Implementation on a viewer or at least better reporing is needed for the sacroml toolkit.
- No decision on experiments or datasets as information wasn't available for this meeting.
- Planning on the TREvolution-AI github needs updated.
- Need to think of what models are TRE users most frequently using, and decide which ones is feasible to implement attacks on.

### Actions
- [ ] @all to discuss and agree on how to integrate SACRO-ML with TREVOLUTION infrastructure
- [ ] @Anwar to set up a meeting to discuss what is needed from our side perhaps in October
- [ ] @all update actions in project plannification
- [ ] @all think of what to measure for the experiments


### Next chair

