# Meeting 12th June 2025

## Present

Anwar, Hannah, James, Jim, Kay, Petar, Richard, Simon

## Apologies

Alba

## Next chair

Petar to chair 26-June, then James 10-July.
 
## Agenda

### Updates

Alba (Jim in her absence): been working on documentation - ALL to look and add any comments to Alba and Hannah's by July 1st. Alba to invite others.

Anwar: no update;

Hannah: going to translate doc to .rst and put in sacro-ml/docs/explainers -- someone to add a link on the README to this. Going to incorporate Simon's comments and invite others.

James: asked for discussion data egress (been reviewing Alba's documentation)

Jim: updated ML risk agreement - live on [SDC reboot](https://github.com/AI-SDC/SDC-Reboot) (currently as PR) - Question: should it be moved to SACRO-ML? Going to send a link to the SDC reboot community; federated learning discussions - we need to have a meeting to find out in what format things will move around, and Phil will organise and invite Richard and Petar; work with genomics England.

Kay: reading papers to get up to speed.

Kay/Petar: problems with supplied Windows devices (awaiting approval for IT administrator access to install software).

Petar: reviewing AI Bill of Rights material (and the UK version: Trusted Bill) to find the differences and potential application to the work here - will outline the usefulness of it and compare with UK and send it for comments (review paper) to see if any common interests for further exploration;

Richard: finishing completing the changes for the TDP paper on unnecessary risk and structural attacks; to begin working on improving SACRO-ML data handling; added some MIA papers to [Zoltero](https://www.zotero.org/groups/4996293/sacro/library) in tdp-refs folder.

Simon: documenting disclosure checks - going through governance to go through eDRIS to assess the MLP - need Pytorch artifacts; potentially require new release of SACRO-ML with new Pytorch support;

### Discussion

LiRA slow and not practical for large models/data - need cheaper to compute attacks (recent published work tending in this direction); need to look at regression (currently all classification); discussion about distances necessary to perturb a record (or be significant) for measuring behaviour; possibly relevant paper: [Range MIAs](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.05131)

### New Actions

* Continuing: Chair to circulate the meetings notes via email;
* All: look/comment on Hannah's [SVM doc](https://github.com/AI-SDC/SDC-Reboot/tree/12b-svm-risks/svm) - BY JULY 1st;
* All: look/comment on Alba's [docs](https://github.com/AI-SDC/SDC-Reboot/blob/12-documentation-table-of-risks-vs-types-of-models/categorisation_of_models_and_risks.md) and [process draft for ML disclosure control](https://dmail-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/r/personal/acrespi001_dundee_ac_uk/Documents/Documents/TRE-volution/Process%20draft%20for%20ML%20disclosure%20control.docx?d=wa341729216084d8f8b2179cb276d3caa&csf=1&web=1&e=ZCxFMJ&xsdata=MDV8MDJ8UmljaGFyZDIuUHJlZW5AdXdlLmFjLnVrfDY5Yjg5NGZhMTkxMTQ3ZTFkMmFkMDhkZGE5OWY0ZmFhfDA3ZWYxMjA4NDEzYzRiNWU5Y2RkNjRlZjMwNTc1NGYwfDB8MHw2Mzg4NTMyMjM4NzAwNzc5MjF8VW5rbm93bnxUV0ZwYkdac2IzZDhleUpGYlhCMGVVMWhjR2tpT25SeWRXVXNJbFlpT2lJd0xqQXVNREF3TUNJc0lsQWlPaUpYYVc0ek1pSXNJa0ZPSWpvaVRXRnBiQ0lzSWxkVUlqb3lmUT09fDB8fHw%3d&sdata=YmVrTzUrYVFhenl0WVJCcUUxUWNFOGVjQUM1Y3dMRGU2WmE5M1hOcFU2RT0%3d) - BY JULY 1st;
* Alba/Hannah: to send invites to review/comment on respective docs (?)
* Petar: circulate draft review paper when ready;
* Kay/Petar: get setup for development (acquiring admin rights);
* Hannah: continue work on explainer documentation;
* Richard: begin work on improving SACRO-ML data handling (Pytorch dataloaders, etc.);
