# Meeting 3 April 2025

### 1. Apologies and attendees

No apologies

Present: Alba, Jim, Richard, Hannah, Simon, James


### 2. Introductions and catch ups

Hannah/James

@albacrespi gave an overview of operation of SACRO-ML pipeline



### 3. Review of previous minutes

#### Research fellow posts

Shortlisted, hopefully interviewing next week.



#### RA in data governance (point of contact between ACRO and ML): 

Recruited, starts on Tuesday. Person does not have much experience on quantitative research but is good at understanding people and their needs. We will need some onboarding. 




### 4. Communications 

Communications will largely be on Slack. 

For meetings, we will add a standing agenda item where we review important discussions on Slack, so as not to miss major announcements. 




### 5. Regarding eDRIS operation

As per @simonrnss, eDRIS are applying for access to train a foundational model on brain images. Researchers are interested in privacy/safety considerations. No real way to build retraining/shadow-model attacks (model too big) so need some theoretical reasons for why what they are doing is non-disclosive. Learning embedding. Encoder/decoder architecture. 


### 6. To do

As per last week, and:

@simonrnss: to organise a meeting on eDRIS foundational model

@jamesliley: liaise with @simonrnss and Hannah regarding eDRIS foundational model and on reports to researchers. 

@jim-smith:

All - look at high-priority areas in https://github.com/orgs/AI-SDC/projects/15/views/4 and see if there is anything that is missing, and check their own items. 


### 7. General notes and discussion

On AI-SDC/TREvolution_disclosure_control_work/issues, we will upvote or downvote things to work on. @jim-smith to find best way to do this. 
