# Meeting 24th July 2025


### Present: 
Alba C-B, Kay A, Anwar G, Richard P, Petar R

### Apologies
Jim S

## Agenda:

### outstanding actions
No major

### Updates

Alba

- Developing document with Jim on risk types for various models. 
- Reading: target training metrics can be correlated with LIRA

Kay 

- Working on insertion attacks

Anwar 

- Generally working on TRE-FX this week

Richard 

- Added SACRO-ML example in R
- Introduced checkpointing
- See detail below

James

- Working on idea of Jims for potential MIAs in hard-to-train models


#### Further SACRO-ML detail:

* added an example to SACRO-ML demonstrating the case where only CSV probabilities have been supplied for a target model (the case where the model was trained in an unsupported language such as R) (see PR#353)
* added shadow model saving for (including train/test indices) and reuse to SACRO-ML (see PR#357):
    - This means that if different LiRA modes need to be computed (e.g., offline and online) a new attack object can simply be created with a different mode and it will quickly run the attack using previously trained models and save the output to the report JSON and PDF.
    - Any other future attacks that may use shadow models can reuse these trained models;
    - A small number of shadow models (e.g., 10) can be initially be used to compute scores and then if needed a subsequent attack object with a larger number (e.g., 20) can be run and it will only need to train the additional models;
* about to remove the pylint CI runner from SACRO-ML (see PR#359) since pylint is slow to run and Ruff can perform the same checks - Ruff is automatically run with pre-commit so that's now the only tool needed to format/check Python code (see CONTRIBUTING.md)


### Discussion items

#### TRE-FX: Anwar

- Writing sample analyses (basic statistics) to demonstrate the possibility of federated analytics with a TRE-FX infrastructure
- Looking re TREvolution; would need some architecture changes to work on TERIFICS

Further discussion:

Alba: SACRO-ML is not directly developed for federated learning but essentially assumes disclosure control in the federated sense can be managed by site-wise disclosure control. 
Richard: SACRO-ML uses a final model; so consider the final model, which could still be evaluated for MIA susceptibility. 
Anwar: can SACRO-ML be ran on local models before recombining?
Alba: local model disclosivity may not mean much for the final model. Combining non-disclosive models may lead to an overall disclosive model. 
James: federated learning may also include local models which are disclosive but an overall model which is non-disclosive; so requiring non-disclosive local models may be overcautious. 
Richard: Overall conclusion is it's mostly the released model which matters; that is, the final model after training. We can probably get away with just testing this one for privacy susceptibility. 

Summary position: final model mostly matters and current SACRO-ML should be OK for this. Possibly look at testing; may discuss next week. 


#### Model disclosure risks summary document: Alba and Jim

Alba: building document with Jim describing different types of privacy risk across various model types. Includes e.g. instance based models and membership inference. No explicit help needed at this stage. Document is intended for project managers to help understand risk and types of control. 

Proof reading and comments invited. 


#### MIA by distance-to-decision boundary: James and Jim

James: working on an idea of Jim's to do with distance-from-decision-boundary in 'penultimate space' as a MIA statistic. Link at https://www.overleaf.com/read/yqykxrfgtwrc#d35750

Alba: read paper recently with different ways of performing attack without limitations of LIRA, termed non-model based attacks. Will forward paper.


### AOB

Alba notes meeting today: TREvolution Collaboration Cafe: SACRO: Shaping the Future of Automated Output Checking, 24th July 2025 13:00 - 14:30

### Next chair
Petar R
