# Meeting 13th November 2025
Chair: James

### Present: 
James, Hannah, Alba, Jim, Jessica, Chris, Anwar, Lewis, Richard, Trupti

### Apologies
Kay, Simon

### Round-the table updates (pre-meeting)
Anwar/ TREvolution outreach: 
- presented at community cafe Re. Patterns and Weaves
- preparing to present 5 safes TES/Weaves to TREXT project workshop 

Hannah:
- Looking at extending / improving the reporting
- Agree about having a top level summary covering all the attacks (as mentioned in task)
- Want to look at some real-life reports/analysis to see what is drawn out as most important
  
James:
- Ongoing (sporadic) looks at distance-to-decision-boundary
- Discussion of MCMC in federated learning ideas 

Jim:
- on leave
- problems with permissions changing on shareable links for 'risks taxonomy' doc
- supporting Genomics England Ltd and early adopters
- planning for workshop in York - what we feel about federated learning

Kay:
- Currently, working on phase 3 of the experiment to generate attacks on the targets with report. 
- Completed phases 1 and 2 of the experiment to generate targets based on several datasets and classifiers. 
- Completed several attacks on the targets without report, Tested them locally and on the server. 

### Discussion

#### Alba:

Paper updating towards PLoS Dig Health format. 

Release-AI is more general comments; it may be better to transform this into a checklist. It is difficult to get something like this ready in time. 

_Jim_: worth looping in some researchers from UWE on this: will e-mail

_Chris_: We should consider at what stage would this be used; e.g., post-hoc or in planning. 

_James_: could be worth directly considering a post-hoc checklist, explicitly for publication rather than at the planning stage. What do readers want to know?


#### Anwar: 

Community cafe went well on 4th, feedback positive. 

Presenting next week to a group doing unstructured text analysis also looking at 5 safes. 

Some questions arising over who is using SACRO


#### Hannah: 

Looking at reporting and considering what we might want to extend. It would be good to be more clear about what metrics should be taken out of an attack. It would be helpful to see some real-world examples of releases that were approved. Simon is sending some old reports which should suffice. 

Should differentiate what we absolutely need to know and what is 'nice to know'

_Jim_: meeting genomics England going through this (what metrics should be reported). 

_Alba_: recent meeting with Susan Krueger (Dundee) also asking about metrics (what is useful). This could be widely relevant. 

_Jim_: retreat in Edinburgh in January for output checkers. 

_Alba_: consider starting a discussion on github. 

_Lewis_: potentially have a list of DPUK examples which could be shared. 

_Chris_: aware of a NSH project in Scotland which was deemed insecure because it was SVC. 

_Jim_: could add a detector of model type to a structural attack. 



#### James:

Ongoing work on DDB. Point from Jim of general interest: it is important to specify is the population of non-training samples under consideration, since it it defines our prior belief that a sample was in the training set. DDB effectively gives us a region of covariate space in which we don’t think there were any training samples. 

Have seen some presentations from a group (Roberts/Pollock/Aslett/others) doing some theoretical work on cryptographically secure and differentially private federated learning of posterior distributions. In particular, methods developed for secure federated MCMC with online communication. May be possible without online communication. 


#### Kay (Jim presenting):

Has generated a large number of targets and is going through attacks. 

_Chris_: Governance envelope should generally be around project rather than around a TRE. If a multiple TRE is under a governance envelope, then all communications between TREs is part of the collaboration envelope. 


#### Jessica: 

The website should be available to show at York.


#### Lewis:

Presented synthetic data material at House of Lords. 

OpenNeuro repository has lots of neurological imaging data which is open-source and can be used for testing. 


#### Richard:

Facebook have done something called 'privacy guard' and have a preprint about it. 

_Jim_: worth thinking about publishing something about talking about what is SACRO-ML, what is its design rationale, etc. 

_Jim/Alba_: also worth considering organising an introduction session to SACRO: people may be more likely to adopt it if they have attended something like this. 




### To do:

#### Alba
- Liaise with other people looking at checklists in this context. 

#### Jim 
- Link up Alba and researchers looking at checklists
- Invite Hannah to Genomics England meeting
- Add issue in which we raise possibility of an introduction session to SACRO. 

#### Hannah
- Look through reports from Simon about what should be released

#### Lewis
- Share some examples of DPUK approved releases with Hannah if possible. 

#### James
- Look out for work on federated MCMC and share when available.  

### Next Meeting 

Convene in York next week; Alba to chair meeting in two weeks time.
