# Meeting 11th June 2026

### Present:
Anwar, James, Alba, Ali, Richard, Jim

### Apologies:


### Next Meeting
- Chair: Jess


### Quick updates
Anwar:
- Team back from SG.
- Doing a lot of work on documents for 5S-TES - including the researcher experience.
- Setting key results for tools and adoption team relating to airlock (new egress control application)
- Working on patterns and weaves paper.

Alba:
- progess on training materials. Notebooks are ready
- added text to training platform
- Collab cafe - training needs grid intro, then breakouts on training text and structure, jupyter notebooks, visual needs - videos and other visuals organisation

Jess
- focused of SACRO Viewer
- need to do fixes that interns left

James
- met with student on distance to decision boundary idea and sketched out some ideas
- student to attend some meetings
- read through Richard's overleaf doc and made some notes. What's to be done with it? What it the destination for it? What can we help with? (To discuss best research directions. Skething out main concept)

Ali
-  Attended a transpect meeting, but PI (Arlene) is not here, so may not be able to contribute.
-  May be included in next week's meeting.

Jim
- Met with RWE projects
- Transpect have shared their repo
- The Transpect page on related work is excellent - we should develop a better, coherent place for literature as a better way of sharing information. What are the key papers? Why are they relevant?
- Met with AIRR-BRIDGE project, wanting to train multilabel classification algos using dawn? in FRIDGE.
- Looking at how to tie in with Isembard AI at a local level.
- Tidying up meta attack work
- HDR UK meeting - talking about AI strategy. They wanted to focus on institutional and regional level, but there's also a national level (i.e., TREs).
- Gave talk to NextGen SPE - training, process and mitigations

Richard
- created doc on overleaf
- looking at weightwatchers metrics to see if they can be predictive of LIRA vulnerability
- generating individual risk scores and sampling target model loss at various epochs, looking for correlation.
- Following LTIQR paper, showing training telelmetry can identify relative risk of individuals without training reference models.
- BRAID is PCA and linear regression, so have looked at literature for attacks on dimensionality reduction techniques.

### New actions
- [ ] - Consider attacks on dimensionality reduction techniques
### Ongoing actions
- [x] **Richard** create position paper on overleaf to capture discussions about our focus for attacks
- [ ] All: look at adding video/walkthrough for docs/readme
  - Feedback from Jackie and Daisy to be integrated
  - Focus on 'how to prepare your model for testing'
- [ ] **Hannah**: Ask about NHS AI policies (privacy, copyright, slop)
- [X] **James**: broad-brush overview of attacks we do and why these do not give formal guarantees; DP; how anonymous/non-anonymous is a dataset
- [ ] **All**: check outstanding issues on repo
- [ ] **All**: think about attacks on regression models
- [ ] - Assessing k-anonymity and other preprocessing
   - on this repo as [issue 35](https://github.com/AI-SDC/TREvolution_disclosure_control_work/issues/35) 
   - For instance, see https://www.nature.com/articles/s41597-022-01894-2
   - [ ] transfer to sacro-ml repor when ready ot be worked on
   - [ ] Include some unit tests and check 
   - Differentiate k-anonymity of a dataset (more ACRO ballpark) and k-anonymity of a function (at least k - to - 1)
   - James to write something about k-anonymity
- [ ] @Hannah to look urgently at PR 457
- [ ] @Jess to deal with issues and other PRs related to the interns
