# Meeting 22nd January 2026

### Present: 
Anwar, Hannah G, James L, Jess I., Jim S., Richard P, Alba

### Apologies

### Quick updates in advance
Alba:
- Worked on Delphi approach
  - See proposal https://dmail-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/g/personal/acrespi001_dundee_ac_uk/IQDiPzlV5VJ5RqBtU2CQeU3PAZZygqkKQrSEeH03NFZW-v4?e=Sj8o7Q
  - Suggested system for feedback JISC (as we have access from UoD) after speaking to a couple of people with experience on this method.
  - Next steps: choose and contact potential members of steering panel
  - Working on Ethics approval, but need to know international collaborators and have questionnaires, information to participants ready etc.
- News: TransPECT was a successful bid as a Real World Exemplar. This project will focus on building tooling and guidance for LLMs and integrate it with SACRO-ML. Lead by Edinburgh.
- Other: On the last TREvolution collaboration cafe there were some comments on some people felt that SACRO and SACRO-ML are very different things and work very differently, yet share name and it's confusing. I have no idea how much of a shared/spread opinion that is.

Anwar: 
- Team has been involved in design discussions for egress development work
- Continued work on patterns and weaves paper
- Implemented a demo of running Bunny over 5STES
- Discussed researcher questionnaire with colleague. Want to discuss possible additional questions for researchers around the analyses they perform/want to perform. 

Hannah:
- Some timeline planning for reporting improvements
  - MVP build aiming for mid-April
  - Including reporting template and metric definitions, placeholders
  - Not including summaries, meta-attacks 

Jess:
- Working on ACRO, not SACRO-ML
- Now work on SACRO-Ml before February

Jim S:
- sat in on real-world-exemplars funding panel (but not final deciaion making) as an observer. I am not supposed to comment on outcomes until they are officially announced, but more than one ML-related one seemed to go down well.
- in process of sifting through applications to recruit 3 short term interns to shar between sacro and sacro-ml depending on their skill set (and urgency of tasks)
- met with Genomics England 20-1-26 to discuss hoew they are getting on with SACRO-ML
   -  had no problems using the tools to create targets and run attacks
   -  found report fairly self-explanatory: most focussed on whether the AUC is statistically significant as their prime measure
   - used SafeRandomForest, SafeDecisionTree and xgboost (without/without usijng the IBM DFifPrivlib to make it Dp)
   - some SAFE RF models still disclosive (according to some measures)
   - need an explainer for data owners etc around what DP is and what guarantees it provides
   - **Question** should we consider piece of work evaluating use of [DiffPriv lib](https://github.com/IBM/differential-privacy-library)- it's jsut two lines of code??

Richard:
  - Generated some results with SACRO-ML;
  - So far, 96 target models; 64 shadow models; LiRA, StructuralAttack and WeightWatcher run;
  - Now performing analysis

### Agenda

- Output checkers retreat next week
- Draft on Delphi approach
  - Sheffield - ask Jim for new contact
- Discussion about training and materials
 
### outstanding actions/ issues arising from updates

- [x] **Question** to create our own 'edited' version of sacroml to use for research vs. pushing ability to programmatical edit results?
  **Proposal** this related to how we capture generalisation error when creating a target: propose to add this to **Structural attack**
- [x] Easy-to-read plan (overall)
- [x] Decision needed on which reporting improvements to include in SACROML 2.0: define minimum viable reporting
- [ ] Write a first attack report and show it to non-ML expert output checker for validation and see how to improve it
- [ ] Hannah (and others) to think of short term coding jobs that we can give to students
- Technical Question for Discussion
  - [ ]  Should researchers have the power to manually insert/add fields (like generalization) to targets?
  - [ ]  Should individuals be allowed to insert things that would normally be calculated automatically?
- **capabilities and timelines: are these reasonable?**

|Reasonable?| What   |     When due |  Who    | Notes/ help needed? |
|----|--------|--------------|---------|---------------------|
|[ ]|process support| June | Alba| Delphi? need stakeholder input? |
|[ ]|risk visualisation| End March |  Hannah|do we need to recruit for feedback?|
|[ ]|produtionised sacro-ml| Oct | Jess/ Richard + RSE | need date to agree what will be supported|
|[ ]|cheaper MIA| March/ June |Richard/James/RSe | some existing methods, some research dependent|
|[ ]|safe xgboost etc| March | Jim/RSE | using 'unnecessary risk' analysis|
|[ ]|training notebooks| March|Jim/Lewis/Alba | sdc-reboot meeting in Jan to provide feedback?|

### Substantive Discussion item

- Vista project are testing RELEASE-AI- talk to them
- Jim adding generalisation error to structural attacks
- Jim meeting with Genomics England - no trouble to generate attacks on their models, better reporting
- Integrate taxonomy of risk in Hannah's reporting
- Suggesting guidance on mitigations on differential privacy, do we want to do that?
- DP need to run attacks anyway, how much can you trust DP by setting their values
- Output checkers retreat next week
  - who stakeholders are, what do they need, processes etc
  - probably set scenario to train a set of models and test them
  - outcome: obtain a set of requirements
- Training: do it in February once we know what they want (after the retreat)
- Jim is asking for 25 days project ideas for interns - masters in AI, BSC computer science
- Think on DP and how to do a piece of work relevant to making claims and testing it.
- Suggesting guidance on mitigations on differential privacy, do we want to do that?
- DP need to run attacks anyway, how much can you trust DP by setting their values

### Actions
- [ ] Alba organise a meeting for Delphi
- [ ] Anwar / anyone else to sent questions for questionnaire to Jim/Lizie
- [ ] Jim to introduce Hannah to Genomics England to test MVP
- [ ] Hannah to organise a meeting about reporting
  - testing MVP with TRE operators including Genomics England
  - how to integrate taxonomy risks into reporting https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-BqycnAmIO7qwKRwClpBNWDJ4I7u0aDa389_W2JY7cw/edit?tab=t.0
  - what information about metrics and mitigations to include, related to interpretation
  - should a reporting be editable to give flexibility? to what extent that is desired or needed?
  - Proposed to add comments and exception request to report
- [ ] Richard to organise a meeting about DP
- [ ] Jim to let Gordon know that Risk Evaluation deliverable will be pushed back a couple of weeks

### Next chair
- Richard
